# Lifting state

## Background

A common question from React beginners is how to share state between two sibling
components. The answer is to
["lift the state"](https://reactjs.org/docs/lifting-state-up.html) which
basically amounts to finding the lowest common parent shared between the two
components and placing the state management there, and then passing the state
and a mechanism for updating that state down into the components that need it.

## Exercise

👨‍💼 Your manager (Taiwo) told you we've got a new feature request for our App(see the `App` 
code below); Our `App` contains a `form` that houses 3 components. The `Name` component(
`label` & `input` to take the name the user inputs.). The `FavoriteAnimal` component (`label`
& `input` to take animal the user inputs). The `Display` component displays "Hey `[name]`, 
your favorite animal is `[animal]`".

The purpose of this exercise is to understand how to share state between sibling components
,which is the ["lift the state"](https://reactjs.org/docs/lifting-state-up.html) concept, so
 we have to move the management of state to the least common parent (`App`) and then pass 
 it down.

```jsx
function App() {
  return (
      <form>
        <Name />
        <FavoriteAnimal />
        <Display />
      </form>
  )
}
```

## Extra Drill down

### 1. 💯 colocating state
Lifting state becomes natural over time,One thing that we typically have trouble remembering 
to do is to push state back down (Make state as close as possible to where it is used.)

Now our manager told that users only want the animal displayed instead of the name:

```javascript
function Display({animal}) {
  return <div>{`Your favorite animal is: ${animal}!`}</div>
}
```

You'll notice that just updating the `Display` component to this works fine, but
for the extra drill down, go through the process of moving state to the components
that need it. You know what you just did for the `Animal` component? You need to
do the opposite thing for the `Name` component.